bin/README.md, before:

# bin/

Convenient symlinks to commonly used commands.

## Commands

### Container

- `jib` - Start/manage jib container
- `docker-setup.py` - Container setup (runs automatically)
- `jib-logs` - View container logs

### Setup Scripts

Install services/timers with these scripts:

- `setup-gateway-sidecar` - Install gateway sidecar service
- `setup-slack-notifier` - Install Slack notifier service
- `setup-slack-receiver` - Install Slack receiver service

### Utilities

- `discover-tests` - Discover test frameworks and commands in a codebase

## Note

These are symlinks to the actual files in `host-services/` and `jib-container/`.
The real files live with their respective services for better organization.

## Service Management

All host services are managed via systemd. Use `systemctl --user` commands:

```bash
# Check status of any service
systemctl --user status slack-notifier.service
systemctl --user status slack-receiver.service

# Restart a service
systemctl --user restart slack-notifier.service

# View logs
journalctl --user -u slack-notifier.service -f
```

Commit message:

Remove deprecated gateway-sidecar code (now in egg)
The gateway sidecar functionality has been extracted to the egg-sandbox
package. This commit removes the deprecated code and updates references.

Removed:
- gateway-sidecar/ directory (50+ files) - now in egg/gateway/ and egg/container/gateway/
- bin/setup-gateway-sidecar symlink - use 'egg gateway setup' instead

Updated:
- pyproject.toml: Add egg-sandbox as required dependency, remove flask/httpx/PyJWT
- jib_lib/gateway.py: Update build_gateway_image() to point to egg
- jib_lib/runtime.py: Update error messages to reference egg
- jib_lib/setup_flow.py: Update setup instructions to reference egg
- README.md: Update architecture diagram and docs link
- bin/README.md: Update setup instructions

Migration path for users:
  pip install egg-sandbox
  egg gateway setup

Authored-by: jib

bin/README.md, after:

# bin/

Convenient symlinks to commonly used commands.

## Commands

### Container

- `jib` - Start/manage jib container
- `docker-setup.py` - Container setup (runs automatically)
- `jib-logs` - View container logs

### Setup Scripts

Install services/timers with these scripts:

- `setup-slack-notifier` - Install Slack notifier service
- `setup-slack-receiver` - Install Slack receiver service

**Note:** The gateway sidecar is now provided by the `egg-sandbox` package.
Install with: `pip install egg-sandbox && egg gateway setup`

### Utilities

- `discover-tests` - Discover test frameworks and commands in a codebase

## Note

These are symlinks to the actual files in `host-services/` and `jib-container/`.
The real files live with their respective services for better organization.

## Service Management

All host services are managed via systemd. Use `systemctl --user` commands:

```bash
# Check status of any service
systemctl --user status slack-notifier.service
systemctl --user status slack-receiver.service

# Restart a service
systemctl --user restart slack-notifier.service

# View logs
journalctl --user -u slack-notifier.service -f
```
