docs/adr/in-progress/ADR-Container-Worktree-Isolation.md, before:

# ADR: Container Worktree Isolation

**Driver:** jib (autonomous agent)
**Approver:** James Wiesebron
**Contributors:** jib
**Informed:** Engineering teams
**Proposed:** January 2026
**Status:** Proposed

## Table of Contents

- [Context](#context)
- [Problem Statement](#problem-statement)
- [Decision](#decision)
- [High-Level Design](#high-level-design)
- [Recommended Approach](#recommended-approach)
  - [Mount Structure](#mount-structure)
  - [Container `.git` File Update](#container-git-file-update)
  - [Object Storage Strategy](#object-storage-strategy)
  - [Refs Strategy](#refs-strategy)
  - [commondir Configuration](#commondir-configuration)
  - [Gateway Sidecar Integration](#gateway-sidecar-integration)
- [Test Results](#test-results)
- [Implementation Plan](#implementation-plan)
- [Consequences](#consequences)
- [Alternatives Considered](#alternatives-considered)

## Context

### Background

The james-in-a-box system runs multiple container instances concurrently, each working on different tasks. Each container needs:
1. Access to repository source code for reading and editing
2. Ability to commit changes to isolated branches
3. Ability to push via the gateway sidecar

Currently, git worktrees are used to give each container an isolated branch while sharing the object database. The architecture involves:

```
Host Machine
├── ~/.git-main/                    # Shared git directories (or ~/repos/repo/.git)
│   └── james-in-a-box/
│       ├── objects/                # Shared object database
│       ├── refs/                   # Branch references
│       └── worktrees/              # Worktree admin directories
│           ├── jib-container-1/    # Container 1's admin dir
│           └── jib-container-2/    # Container 2's admin dir
│
└── ~/.jib-worktrees/               # Container worktrees
    ├── jib-20260127-001/james-in-a-box/
    └── jib-20260127-002/james-in-a-box/
```

### The Incident

During a PR review session, Container A had a broken `.git` file pointing to a non-existent worktree admin directory. When attempting to fix this, the agent modified the `.git` file to point to Container B's worktree admin directory.

This caused Container A to:
- Operate on Container B's branch
- See Container B's staged changes and commit history
- Potentially commit to the wrong branch

### Current Access Model

Each container currently has read-write access to:
- `/home/jib/repos/` - Repository working copies (worktrees)
- `/home/jib/.git-main/` - **Full git directory structure including ALL worktree admin directories**
- `/home/jib/.jib-worktrees/` - All container worktree directories

**The core issue:** Containers can access and modify other containers' git state because the entire `.git` directory (including all worktree admin dirs) is mounted to each container.

## Problem Statement

Multiple jib container instances share access to `~/.git-main/` which contains worktree admin directories for all containers. A container can accidentally (or through prompt injection) modify another container's `.git` file and hijack its worktree, leading to:

1. **Cross-contamination**: Commits intended for one task ending up on another task's branch
2. **Data loss**: Overwriting another container's uncommitted changes
3. **Security breach**: Malicious prompt injection could deliberately target other containers

## Decision

Implement **Mount-Restriction Isolation** - a simpler approach that preserves the existing worktree architecture but restricts what each container can see.

## High-Level Design

### Original Option A: Per-Container Git Directory Isolation (Rejected)

The original proposal created separate, complete git directories for each container with shared objects via alternates. This was rejected because:

1. **Working copy inconsistency**: The ADR showed shared `~/repos/` mount but worktrees use isolated directories
2. **`.git.{container_id}` naming bug**: Git only recognizes `.git`, not custom variants
3. **Object sync complexity**: Requires non-trivial sync between container and master objects
4. **Unnecessary complexity**: The simpler mount-restriction approach achieves the same isolation

### Adopted Approach: Mount-Restriction Isolation

Instead of creating new per-container git directories, restrict what the existing `.git` directory mounts to each container:

**Current (Problematic):**
```bash
# Mounts ENTIRE .git directory - all containers see all worktree admin dirs
-v ~/.git/repo:/home/jib/.git-main/repo:rw
```

**Proposed (Isolated):**
```bash
# Container 1 only sees its own worktree admin dir
-v ~/.jib-worktrees/container-1/repo:/home/jib/repos/repo:rw          # Worktree working dir
-v ~/.git/repo/worktrees/container-1:/home/jib/.git-admin/repo:rw     # ONLY this container's admin
-v ~/.git/repo/objects:/home/jib/.git-objects/repo:ro                  # Shared objects (read-only)
-v container-1-objects:/home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo:rw            # Container's writable objects
-v ~/.git/repo/refs:/home/jib/.git-refs/repo:ro                        # Shared refs (read-only)
```

**Note on Object Storage:** Containers need their own writable objects directory to create new commits. The shared objects mount provides read-only access to existing objects. Git's alternates mechanism allows the container to read from the shared store while writing to its local store. See [Object Storage Strategy](#object-storage-strategy) for details.

**Advantages:**
- Preserves existing worktree architecture
- Zero new directory structures
- Zero object sync mechanisms
- Simpler implementation
- Each container can only see its own worktree admin directory

## Recommended Approach

### Mount Structure

For each repository, mount:

1. **Worktree working directory** (rw) - Container's isolated working copy
2. **Worktree admin directory ONLY** (rw) - Just this container's admin dir, not all worktrees
3. **Container's local objects** (rw, Docker volume) - Writable object storage for new commits
4. **Shared objects** (ro) - Read-only access to existing object database (via alternates)
5. **Shared refs** (ro) - Read-only access to branch references
6. **Shared git common dir** (ro) - For commondir resolution (config, hooks, etc.)

```bash
# Complete mount structure for a container
-v ~/.jib-worktrees/${CONTAINER}/repo:/home/jib/repos/repo:rw           # Working dir
-v ~/.git/repo/worktrees/${WORKTREE}:/home/jib/.git-admin/repo:rw       # Worktree admin
-v ${CONTAINER}-objects:/home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo:rw             # Local objects (volume)
-v ~/.git/repo/objects:/home/jib/.git-objects/repo:ro                    # Shared objects
-v ~/.git/repo/refs:/home/jib/.git-refs/repo:ro                          # Shared refs
-v ~/.git/repo:/home/jib/.git-common/repo:ro                             # Common dir
```

### Container `.git` File Update

Each container's worktree `.git` file must be updated to point to the container's mount path:

```
gitdir: /home/jib/.git-admin/repo
```

This is done during container initialization.

### Object Storage Strategy

Git creates objects (blobs, trees, commits) when staging and committing. With a read-only shared objects directory, containers cannot write these directly. The solution uses git's alternates mechanism:

**Structure:**
```
Container View
├── /home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo/    # Container's writable objects (Docker volume)
│   ├── info/
│   │   └── alternates                    # Points to shared objects
│   ├── pack/
│   └── [object dirs created during commits]
│
└── /home/jib/.git-objects/repo/          # Shared objects (read-only mount)
    ├── pack/                             # Existing packfiles
    └── [existing loose objects]
```

**How it works:**
1. Container's git config is updated: `objects = /home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo`
2. Alternates file contains: `/home/jib/.git-objects/repo`
3. When git needs an object: first checks local, then alternates (shared)
4. When git creates an object: writes to local writable directory

**After push via gateway:**
The gateway sidecar copies newly-created objects from the container's local objects to the shared store. This makes commits available to other containers and the host. The gateway already handles push operations, so this is an extension of existing functionality.

### Refs Strategy

Refs (branch references) need special handling because:
- **Reading**: Containers need to see current branch HEADs for fetch/merge operations
- **Writing**: Commits update branch refs

**How worktree refs work:**
- Worktrees store their checked-out branch in the worktree admin dir (`HEAD` file)
- Branch locks are also stored per-worktree
- The main refs directory is shared for reading via read-only mount

**Ref updates during commits:**
When a container commits, git updates the ref for the current branch. In worktrees, this happens via:
1. The worktree's `HEAD` file identifies which branch is checked out
2. Git acquires a lock in the worktree admin dir
3. Git updates the ref (in the container's view, this writes to a path that maps back to the host)

**Ref visibility after gateway operations:**
After `git fetch` via gateway, the gateway updates refs on the host in `~/.git/repo/refs/`. Containers see these updates immediately through their read-only refs mount.

### commondir Configuration

Git worktrees use a `commondir` file to locate the shared git directory. With the new mount structure:

**Container's worktree admin dir:**
```
/home/jib/.git-admin/repo/
├── HEAD                 # Current branch reference
├── commondir            # Points to shared git components
├── gitdir               # Path to worktree (for reverse resolution)
└── index                # Staging area
```

**commondir contents:**
```
/home/jib/.git-common/repo
```

**Additional mount needed:**
```bash
-v ~/.git/repo:/home/jib/.git-common/repo:ro    # Shared git dir (for commondir resolution)
```

This mount provides access to shared git components (config, hooks, etc.) while the specific worktree admin mounts ensure containers can only see their own working state.

### Gateway Sidecar Integration

The gateway sidecar is unaffected by this change because:

1. **Host-side operation:** Gateway runs on the host, directly accessing `~/.git/repo/` and `~/.jib-worktrees/`. Container mount changes don't affect host-side paths.

2. **Path mapping:** When containers send requests with `/home/jib/repos/repo`, the gateway translates this to the host worktree path. This translation logic remains unchanged.

3. **Refs visibility:** After gateway performs `git fetch`, refs are updated in `~/.git/repo/refs/` on the host. Containers see these updates through their read-only refs mount.

4. **Object sync extension:** The gateway will be extended to copy newly-created objects from container local storage to the shared store after successful push. This happens host-side after the push completes.

5. **No code changes for core operations:** Gateway policy enforcement, authentication, and command execution remain identical.

## Test Results

The mount-restriction approach was tested on 2026-01-26 with positive results.

### Test 1: Basic Git Operations

Created a simulated container view with restricted mounts. All git operations worked correctly:

```
Test directory: /tmp/git-isolation-test-*
✓ Created main repo
✓ Created worktree
✓ Created container-view mount structure
✓ Updated .git file to point to restricted mount

=== Testing git operations in container-view ===
✓ git status works
✓ git log works
✓ git add works (staging)
✓ git commit works
✓ Commit visible in main repo
```

### Test 2: Cross-Container Isolation

Created two simulated containers with separate restricted views:

```
=== Test 1: Both containers can work independently ===
✓ Container A committed
✓ Container B committed

=== Test 2: Commits visible from main repo ===
✓ Container A's commit visible
✓ Container B's commit visible

=== Test 3: Cross-container isolation ===
  Container A sees worktree admins: ['myrepo']      # ONLY its own
  Container B sees worktree admins: ['myrepo1']     # ONLY its own
✓ Container A can ONLY see its own admin dir
✓ Container B can ONLY see its own admin dir

Summary:
- Each container can only see its own worktree admin directory
- Objects and refs are shared (commits visible across containers)
- Container A cannot access Container B's git state
```

### Key Findings

1. **Git path resolution works**: Git correctly resolves the `.git` file to the restructured mount paths
2. **Objects remain shared**: The alternates mechanism works - commits from one container are visible to others
3. **Isolation is effective**: Each container only sees its own worktree admin directory

### Test Clarification

The initial tests used a simplified setup where objects were writable. The full implementation requires:
- Separate local objects directory per container (writable)
- Shared objects directory (read-only) accessible via alternates
- Gateway object sync after push to populate shared store

Additional integration tests needed:
- [ ] Commit with read-only shared objects + writable local objects
- [ ] Object visibility across containers after gateway sync
- [ ] commondir resolution with separated mounts

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Update Mount Configuration
- [ ] Modify `runtime.py` to mount individual git components instead of entire `.git` directory
- [ ] Mount only the container's specific worktree admin dir
- [ ] Mount shared objects read-only
- [ ] Mount shared refs read-only
- [ ] Copy essential config files

### Phase 2: Container Initialization
- [ ] Update worktree `.git` file to point to container mount paths during initialization
- [ ] Configure `commondir` file to point to `/home/jib/.git-common/repo`
- [ ] Create alternates file in local objects pointing to shared objects
- [ ] Update git config to use local objects directory

### Phase 3: Gateway Updates
- [ ] Add object sync after successful push (copy new objects from container volume to shared store)
- [ ] Test object visibility across containers after push

### Phase 4: Cleanup Verification
- [ ] Verify `worktree-watcher.sh` continues to work with new structure
- [ ] Ensure cleanup removes container object volumes when containers are removed
- [ ] Test orphaned worktree detection and removal

### Phase 5: Testing
- [ ] Add integration tests for container isolation
- [ ] Test concurrent container operations
- [ ] Test cleanup still works correctly

## Consequences

### Positive
- **Complete isolation**: Containers cannot access each other's git state
- **Simple implementation**: Uses existing architecture with restricted mounts
- **No object sync needed**: Shared object store continues to work
- **Reduced accident risk**: No way to accidentally hijack another container's worktree

### Negative
- **More mount points**: Each repo needs 6 mounts instead of 2
- **Path translation**: Container paths differ from host paths (already the case)
- **Object sync complexity**: Gateway must sync objects after push (additional code)
- **Docker volumes**: Each container needs a volume for local objects (minor resource overhead)

### Neutral
- **Existing workflow preserved**: Git commands work the same from user perspective
- **Worktree cleanup**: Existing `worktree-watcher.sh` continues to work for worktree cleanup; volume cleanup is a new requirement
- **Gateway changes**: Minor extension to existing push handler

## Alternatives Considered

### 1. Per-Container Git Directories (Original Option A)
Create complete isolated git directories per container with alternates.

**Rejected:** Unnecessarily complex. Mount-restriction achieves the same isolation with less code.

### 2. Behavioral Controls Only
Rely on CLAUDE.md instructions to tell agents not to modify other containers' files.

**Rejected:** Not enforceable. The incident that prompted this ADR happened despite instructions.

### 3. Read-Only Repository Mounts
Make all repo mounts read-only and route writes through gateway.

**Rejected:** Significant gateway complexity. Performance overhead for every git operation.

### 4. Keep Current Architecture with Monitoring
Add monitoring to detect cross-container access and alert.

**Rejected:** Detection after the fact doesn't prevent data loss or corruption.

---

Authored-by: jib

Commit message:

Clarify gateway object sync timing and fetch behavior
Addresses review feedback:
- Document that fetch writes objects directly to shared store (no sync needed)
- Clarify object sync timing: sync happens before push returns success
- No window exists where push appears successful but objects aren't synced

Authored-by: jib

docs/adr/in-progress/ADR-Container-Worktree-Isolation.md, after:

# ADR: Container Worktree Isolation

**Driver:** jib (autonomous agent)
**Approver:** James Wiesebron
**Contributors:** jib
**Informed:** Engineering teams
**Proposed:** January 2026
**Status:** Proposed

## Table of Contents

- [Context](#context)
- [Problem Statement](#problem-statement)
- [Decision](#decision)
- [High-Level Design](#high-level-design)
- [Recommended Approach](#recommended-approach)
  - [Mount Structure](#mount-structure)
  - [Container `.git` File Update](#container-git-file-update)
  - [Object Storage Strategy](#object-storage-strategy)
  - [Refs Strategy](#refs-strategy)
  - [commondir Configuration](#commondir-configuration)
  - [Gateway Sidecar Integration](#gateway-sidecar-integration)
- [Test Results](#test-results)
- [Implementation Plan](#implementation-plan)
- [Consequences](#consequences)
- [Alternatives Considered](#alternatives-considered)

## Context

### Background

The james-in-a-box system runs multiple container instances concurrently, each working on different tasks. Each container needs:
1. Access to repository source code for reading and editing
2. Ability to commit changes to isolated branches
3. Ability to push via the gateway sidecar

Currently, git worktrees are used to give each container an isolated branch while sharing the object database. The architecture involves:

```
Host Machine
├── ~/.git-main/                    # Shared git directories (or ~/repos/repo/.git)
│   └── james-in-a-box/
│       ├── objects/                # Shared object database
│       ├── refs/                   # Branch references
│       └── worktrees/              # Worktree admin directories
│           ├── jib-container-1/    # Container 1's admin dir
│           └── jib-container-2/    # Container 2's admin dir
│
└── ~/.jib-worktrees/               # Container worktrees
    ├── jib-20260127-001/james-in-a-box/
    └── jib-20260127-002/james-in-a-box/
```

### The Incident

During a PR review session, Container A had a broken `.git` file pointing to a non-existent worktree admin directory. When attempting to fix this, the agent modified the `.git` file to point to Container B's worktree admin directory.

This caused Container A to:
- Operate on Container B's branch
- See Container B's staged changes and commit history
- Potentially commit to the wrong branch

### Current Access Model

Each container currently has read-write access to:
- `/home/jib/repos/` - Repository working copies (worktrees)
- `/home/jib/.git-main/` - **Full git directory structure including ALL worktree admin directories**
- `/home/jib/.jib-worktrees/` - All container worktree directories

**The core issue:** Containers can access and modify other containers' git state because the entire `.git` directory (including all worktree admin dirs) is mounted to each container.

## Problem Statement

Multiple jib container instances share access to `~/.git-main/` which contains worktree admin directories for all containers. A container can accidentally (or through prompt injection) modify another container's `.git` file and hijack its worktree, leading to:

1. **Cross-contamination**: Commits intended for one task ending up on another task's branch
2. **Data loss**: Overwriting another container's uncommitted changes
3. **Security breach**: Malicious prompt injection could deliberately target other containers

## Decision

Implement **Mount-Restriction Isolation** - a simpler approach that preserves the existing worktree architecture but restricts what each container can see.

## High-Level Design

### Original Option A: Per-Container Git Directory Isolation (Rejected)

The original proposal created separate, complete git directories for each container with shared objects via alternates. This was rejected because:

1. **Working copy inconsistency**: The ADR showed shared `~/repos/` mount but worktrees use isolated directories
2. **`.git.{container_id}` naming bug**: Git only recognizes `.git`, not custom variants
3. **Object sync complexity**: Requires non-trivial sync between container and master objects
4. **Unnecessary complexity**: The simpler mount-restriction approach achieves the same isolation

### Adopted Approach: Mount-Restriction Isolation

Instead of creating new per-container git directories, restrict what the existing `.git` directory mounts to each container:

**Current (Problematic):**
```bash
# Mounts ENTIRE .git directory - all containers see all worktree admin dirs
-v ~/.git/repo:/home/jib/.git-main/repo:rw
```

**Proposed (Isolated):**
```bash
# Container 1 only sees its own worktree admin dir
-v ~/.jib-worktrees/container-1/repo:/home/jib/repos/repo:rw          # Worktree working dir
-v ~/.git/repo/worktrees/container-1:/home/jib/.git-admin/repo:rw     # ONLY this container's admin
-v ~/.git/repo/objects:/home/jib/.git-objects/repo:ro                  # Shared objects (read-only)
-v container-1-objects:/home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo:rw            # Container's writable objects
-v ~/.git/repo/refs:/home/jib/.git-refs/repo:ro                        # Shared refs (read-only)
```

**Note on Object Storage:** Containers need their own writable objects directory to create new commits. The shared objects mount provides read-only access to existing objects. Git's alternates mechanism allows the container to read from the shared store while writing to its local store. See [Object Storage Strategy](#object-storage-strategy) for details.

**Advantages:**
- Preserves existing worktree architecture
- Zero new directory structures
- Zero object sync mechanisms
- Simpler implementation
- Each container can only see its own worktree admin directory

## Recommended Approach

### Mount Structure

For each repository, mount:

1. **Worktree working directory** (rw) - Container's isolated working copy
2. **Worktree admin directory ONLY** (rw) - Just this container's admin dir, not all worktrees
3. **Container's local objects** (rw, Docker volume) - Writable object storage for new commits
4. **Shared objects** (ro) - Read-only access to existing object database (via alternates)
5. **Shared refs** (ro) - Read-only access to branch references
6. **Shared git common dir** (ro) - For commondir resolution (config, hooks, etc.)

```bash
# Complete mount structure for a container
-v ~/.jib-worktrees/${CONTAINER}/repo:/home/jib/repos/repo:rw           # Working dir
-v ~/.git/repo/worktrees/${WORKTREE}:/home/jib/.git-admin/repo:rw       # Worktree admin
-v ${CONTAINER}-objects:/home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo:rw             # Local objects (volume)
-v ~/.git/repo/objects:/home/jib/.git-objects/repo:ro                    # Shared objects
-v ~/.git/repo/refs:/home/jib/.git-refs/repo:ro                          # Shared refs
-v ~/.git/repo:/home/jib/.git-common/repo:ro                             # Common dir
```

### Container `.git` File Update

Each container's worktree `.git` file must be updated to point to the container's mount path:

```
gitdir: /home/jib/.git-admin/repo
```

This is done during container initialization.

### Object Storage Strategy

Git creates objects (blobs, trees, commits) when staging and committing. With a read-only shared objects directory, containers cannot write these directly. The solution uses git's alternates mechanism:

**Structure:**
```
Container View
├── /home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo/    # Container's writable objects (Docker volume)
│   ├── info/
│   │   └── alternates                    # Points to shared objects
│   ├── pack/
│   └── [object dirs created during commits]
│
└── /home/jib/.git-objects/repo/          # Shared objects (read-only mount)
    ├── pack/                             # Existing packfiles
    └── [existing loose objects]
```

**How it works:**
1. Container's git config is updated: `objects = /home/jib/.git-local-objects/repo`
2. Alternates file contains: `/home/jib/.git-objects/repo`
3. When git needs an object: first checks local, then alternates (shared)
4. When git creates an object: writes to local writable directory

**After push via gateway:**
The gateway sidecar copies newly-created objects from the container's local objects to the shared store. This makes commits available to other containers and the host. The gateway already handles push operations, so this is an extension of existing functionality.

### Refs Strategy

Refs (branch references) need special handling because:
- **Reading**: Containers need to see current branch HEADs for fetch/merge operations
- **Writing**: Commits update branch refs

**How worktree refs work:**
- Worktrees store their checked-out branch in the worktree admin dir (`HEAD` file)
- Branch locks are also stored per-worktree
- The main refs directory is shared for reading via read-only mount

**Ref updates during commits:**
When a container commits, git updates the ref for the current branch. In worktrees, this happens via:
1. The worktree's `HEAD` file identifies which branch is checked out
2. Git acquires a lock in the worktree admin dir
3. Git updates the ref (in the container's view, this writes to a path that maps back to the host)

**Ref visibility after gateway operations:**
After `git fetch` via gateway, the gateway updates refs on the host in `~/.git/repo/refs/`. Containers see these updates immediately through their read-only refs mount.

### commondir Configuration

Git worktrees use a `commondir` file to locate the shared git directory. With the new mount structure:

**Container's worktree admin dir:**
```
/home/jib/.git-admin/repo/
├── HEAD                 # Current branch reference
├── commondir            # Points to shared git components
├── gitdir               # Path to worktree (for reverse resolution)
└── index                # Staging area
```

**commondir contents:**
```
/home/jib/.git-common/repo
```

**Additional mount needed:**
```bash
-v ~/.git/repo:/home/jib/.git-common/repo:ro    # Shared git dir (for commondir resolution)
```

This mount provides access to shared git components (config, hooks, etc.) while the specific worktree admin mounts ensure containers can only see their own working state.

### Gateway Sidecar Integration

The gateway sidecar is unaffected by this change because:

1. **Host-side operation:** Gateway runs on the host, directly accessing `~/.git/repo/` and `~/.jib-worktrees/`. Container mount changes don't affect host-side paths.

2. **Path mapping:** When containers send requests with `/home/jib/repos/repo`, the gateway translates this to the host worktree path. This translation logic remains unchanged.

3. **Fetch operations and object storage:** When the gateway performs `git fetch`, it executes on the host and writes downloaded objects directly to `~/.git/repo/objects/` (the shared object store). Containers see these new objects immediately through their read-only shared objects mount. No additional sync is needed for fetch—only for push (see below).

4. **Refs visibility:** After gateway performs `git fetch`, refs are updated in `~/.git/repo/refs/` on the host. Containers see these updates immediately through their read-only refs mount.

5. **Object sync extension:** The gateway will be extended to copy newly-created objects from container local storage to the shared store after successful push. This happens host-side after the push completes.

6. **Object sync timing:** The gateway performs object sync as part of the push operation, before returning success to the container. The sequence is:
   - Container sends push request to gateway
   - Gateway executes `git push` on host (using container's worktree)
   - Gateway copies new objects from container's local objects volume to shared store
   - Gateway returns success to container

   This ensures that when a push succeeds, the objects are already in the shared store and visible to other containers. There is no window where a push appears successful but objects are not yet synced.

7. **No code changes for core operations:** Gateway policy enforcement, authentication, and command execution remain identical.

## Test Results

The mount-restriction approach was tested on 2026-01-26 with positive results.

### Test 1: Basic Git Operations

Created a simulated container view with restricted mounts. All git operations worked correctly:

```
Test directory: /tmp/git-isolation-test-*
✓ Created main repo
✓ Created worktree
✓ Created container-view mount structure
✓ Updated .git file to point to restricted mount

=== Testing git operations in container-view ===
✓ git status works
✓ git log works
✓ git add works (staging)
✓ git commit works
✓ Commit visible in main repo
```

### Test 2: Cross-Container Isolation

Created two simulated containers with separate restricted views:

```
=== Test 1: Both containers can work independently ===
✓ Container A committed
✓ Container B committed

=== Test 2: Commits visible from main repo ===
✓ Container A's commit visible
✓ Container B's commit visible

=== Test 3: Cross-container isolation ===
  Container A sees worktree admins: ['myrepo']      # ONLY its own
  Container B sees worktree admins: ['myrepo1']     # ONLY its own
✓ Container A can ONLY see its own admin dir
✓ Container B can ONLY see its own admin dir

Summary:
- Each container can only see its own worktree admin directory
- Objects and refs are shared (commits visible across containers)
- Container A cannot access Container B's git state
```

### Key Findings

1. **Git path resolution works**: Git correctly resolves the `.git` file to the restructured mount paths
2. **Objects remain shared**: The alternates mechanism works - commits from one container are visible to others
3. **Isolation is effective**: Each container only sees its own worktree admin directory

### Test Clarification

The initial tests used a simplified setup where objects were writable. The full implementation requires:
- Separate local objects directory per container (writable)
- Shared objects directory (read-only) accessible via alternates
- Gateway object sync after push to populate shared store

Additional integration tests needed:
- [ ] Commit with read-only shared objects + writable local objects
- [ ] Object visibility across containers after gateway sync
- [ ] commondir resolution with separated mounts

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Update Mount Configuration
- [ ] Modify `runtime.py` to mount individual git components instead of entire `.git` directory
- [ ] Mount only the container's specific worktree admin dir
- [ ] Mount shared objects read-only
- [ ] Mount shared refs read-only
- [ ] Copy essential config files

### Phase 2: Container Initialization
- [ ] Update worktree `.git` file to point to container mount paths during initialization
- [ ] Configure `commondir` file to point to `/home/jib/.git-common/repo`
- [ ] Create alternates file in local objects pointing to shared objects
- [ ] Update git config to use local objects directory

### Phase 3: Gateway Updates
- [ ] Add object sync after successful push (copy new objects from container volume to shared store)
- [ ] Test object visibility across containers after push

### Phase 4: Cleanup Verification
- [ ] Verify `worktree-watcher.sh` continues to work with new structure
- [ ] Ensure cleanup removes container object volumes when containers are removed
- [ ] Test orphaned worktree detection and removal

### Phase 5: Testing
- [ ] Add integration tests for container isolation
- [ ] Test concurrent container operations
- [ ] Test cleanup still works correctly

## Consequences

### Positive
- **Complete isolation**: Containers cannot access each other's git state
- **Simple implementation**: Uses existing architecture with restricted mounts
- **No object sync needed**: Shared object store continues to work
- **Reduced accident risk**: No way to accidentally hijack another container's worktree

### Negative
- **More mount points**: Each repo needs 6 mounts instead of 2
- **Path translation**: Container paths differ from host paths (already the case)
- **Object sync complexity**: Gateway must sync objects after push (additional code)
- **Docker volumes**: Each container needs a volume for local objects (minor resource overhead)

### Neutral
- **Existing workflow preserved**: Git commands work the same from user perspective
- **Worktree cleanup**: Existing `worktree-watcher.sh` continues to work for worktree cleanup; volume cleanup is a new requirement
- **Gateway changes**: Minor extension to existing push handler

## Alternatives Considered

### 1. Per-Container Git Directories (Original Option A)
Create complete isolated git directories per container with alternates.

**Rejected:** Unnecessarily complex. Mount-restriction achieves the same isolation with less code.

### 2. Behavioral Controls Only
Rely on CLAUDE.md instructions to tell agents not to modify other containers' files.

**Rejected:** Not enforceable. The incident that prompted this ADR happened despite instructions.

### 3. Read-Only Repository Mounts
Make all repo mounts read-only and route writes through gateway.

**Rejected:** Significant gateway complexity. Performance overhead for every git operation.

### 4. Keep Current Architecture with Monitoring
Add monitoring to detect cross-container access and alert.

**Rejected:** Detection after the fact doesn't prevent data loss or corruption.

---

Authored-by: jib
