docs/architecture/LLM-First-Software-Development-Lifecycle.md, before:

# Human-Driven, LLM-Navigated Software Development

**Status:** Draft
**Author:** James Wiesebron, james-in-a-box
**Created:** December 2025
**Purpose:** A philosophy and framework for software development where humans drive strategy while LLMs handle structural rigor and implementation

---

> **Part of:** [A Pragmatic Guide for Software Engineering in a Post-LLM World](Pragmatic-Guide-Software-Engineering-Post-LLM-World.md)

---

## Executive Summary

This document articulates a new paradigm for software development: **human-driven, LLM-navigated**. The core insight is that humans and LLMs have complementary cognitive strengths, and optimal software development emerges when each focuses on what they do best.

**Humans excel at:**
- Creative problem-solving and innovation
- Strategic decision-making under uncertainty
- Interpersonal collaboration and team dynamics
- Intuitive judgment about what matters
- Adapting to novel, ambiguous situations

**LLMs excel at:**
- Maintaining structural consistency across large codebases
- Exhaustive enumeration of edge cases and considerations
- Applying established patterns with unwavering precision
- Processing and synthesizing large amounts of context
- Tireless execution of well-defined implementation tasks

**The goal:** Free human cognitive capacity for creativity, strategic thinking, and healthy collaboration by offloading structural rigor and implementation details to LLMs. This isn't about replacing humans—it's about *amplifying* what makes humans uniquely valuable.

---

## Table of Contents

- [The Core Philosophy](#the-core-philosophy)
- [Division of Cognitive Labor](#division-of-cognitive-labor)
- [The Workflow in Practice](#the-workflow-in-practice)
- [Benefits for Humans](#benefits-for-humans)
- [Benefits for Teams](#benefits-for-teams)
- [Implementation Patterns](#implementation-patterns)
- [Anti-Patterns to Avoid](#anti-patterns-to-avoid)
- [Success Criteria](#success-criteria)
- [Related Documents](#related-documents)

---

## The Core Philosophy

### Driving vs. Navigating

Consider the analogy of a road trip:

| Role | Responsibility | Cognitive Load |
|------|----------------|----------------|
| **Driver (Human)** | Decides where to go, when to stop, what route to take | Creative, strategic, social |
| **Navigator (LLM)** | Tracks current position, calculates optimal paths, monitors for hazards | Systematic, exhaustive, precise |

The driver makes the decisions that matter—the destination, the purpose of the journey, whether to take the scenic route. The navigator handles the cognitive burden of tracking every detail, ensuring nothing is missed, and providing accurate information for decision-making.

Neither role is subordinate to the other. Both are essential. But they require fundamentally different cognitive capabilities.

### The Problem with Traditional Development

Traditional software development places an enormous cognitive burden on humans:

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    HUMAN COGNITIVE LOAD                        │
│                                                                │
│  Strategic Thinking        │  Implementation Details           │
│  ─────────────────         │  ──────────────────────           │
│  • What should we build?   │  • Did I handle null?             │
│  • Why does this matter?   │  • Is this pattern consistent?    │
│  • How does this fit?      │  • Did I update all call sites?   │
│                            │  • Are the tests comprehensive?   │
│                            │  • Is the documentation current?  │
│                            │  • Did I miss any edge cases?     │
│                            │                                   │
│        (~30%)              │          (~70%)                   │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

The majority of cognitive effort goes toward ensuring correctness, consistency, and completeness—tasks that require exhaustive attention to detail rather than creative insight.

### The Human-Driven, LLM-Navigated Model

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    COGNITIVE LOAD REDISTRIBUTION               │
│                                                                │
│     HUMAN (Driver)         │      LLM (Navigator)              │
│     ──────────────         │      ─────────────────            │
│  • What should we build?   │  • Enumerate all edge cases       │
│  • Why does this matter?   │  • Ensure pattern consistency     │
│  • How does this fit?      │  • Update all call sites          │
│  • Is this the right       │  • Generate comprehensive tests   │
│    approach?               │  • Keep documentation current     │
│  • Should we proceed?      │  • Validate against standards     │
│  • What trade-offs are     │  • Track dependencies and         │
│    acceptable?             │    implications                   │
│                            │                                   │
│  Creative, Strategic       │  Systematic, Exhaustive           │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Division of Cognitive Labor

### Human Responsibilities

| Domain | What Humans Do | Why Humans |
|--------|----------------|------------|
| **Vision** | Define what success looks like | Requires understanding of user needs, business context, organizational goals |
| **Strategy** | Choose between competing approaches | Requires judgment under uncertainty, risk tolerance, stakeholder management |
| **Review** | Approve or reject proposed changes | Requires accountability, institutional knowledge, taste |
| **Collaboration** | Coordinate with other humans | Requires empathy, persuasion, relationship-building |
| **Novelty** | Handle unprecedented situations | Requires creative problem-solving, analogical reasoning |

### LLM Responsibilities

| Domain | What LLMs Do | Why LLMs |
|--------|--------------|----------|
| **Completeness** | Enumerate every consideration | Tireless attention, no cognitive fatigue |
| **Consistency** | Apply patterns uniformly | Perfect recall of established patterns |
| **Precision** | Get details exactly right | No typos, no oversights, no "I'll fix it later" |
| **Documentation** | Keep everything current | No resistance to "boring" work |
| **Validation** | Verify against standards | Instant access to reference materials |
| **Implementation** | Execute well-defined tasks | Efficient translation of spec to code |

### The Handoff Points

```
        Human                              LLM
          │                                  │
          │  "I want to add OAuth2 to        │
          │   the API for third-party        │
          │   integrations"                  │
          │─────────────────────────────────▶│
          │                                  │
          │                                  │ • Research OAuth2 best practices
          │                                  │ • Enumerate security considerations
          │                                  │ • Identify affected components
          │                                  │ • Draft implementation plan
          │                                  │
          │◀─────────────────────────────────│
          │  "Here are 3 approaches with     │
          │   trade-offs. Approach A is      │
          │   simplest but limits future     │
          │   flexibility..."                │
          │                                  │
          │  [Human reviews, asks            │
          │   clarifying questions,          │
          │   makes strategic decision]      │
          │                                  │
          │  "Let's go with Approach B,      │
          │   but use PKCE instead of        │
          │   client secrets"                │
          │─────────────────────────────────▶│
          │                                  │
          │                                  │ • Implement Approach B with PKCE
          │                                  │ • Write comprehensive tests
          │                                  │ • Update documentation
          │                                  │ • Ensure consistency with codebase
          │                                  │
          │◀─────────────────────────────────│
          │  [PR ready for human review]     │
          │                                  │
          ▼                                  ▼
```

---

## The Workflow in Practice

### Phase 1: Human Initiates with Intent

The human expresses what they want to accomplish, not necessarily how:

```
"I want to be able to revoke API access for users who leave the company"
```

This is *driving*: the human decides the destination based on business needs.

### Phase 2: LLM Navigates the Solution Space

The LLM exhaustively explores the solution space:

- What existing patterns does the codebase use for access control?
- What are the security implications of different revocation strategies?
- Which components need to be modified?
- What edge cases must be handled (partial revocation, active sessions, etc.)?
- What do industry best practices recommend?

This is *navigating*: systematic, thorough exploration of all paths.

### Phase 3: Human Makes Strategic Decisions

The LLM presents options with trade-offs. The human decides:

- "Immediate revocation is more important than graceful session handling"
- "We'll accept some increased complexity to support partial revocation"
- "Let's prioritize security over backward compatibility"

This is *driving*: the human makes the judgment calls.

### Phase 4: LLM Executes with Precision

Given the strategic decisions, the LLM implements with unwavering consistency:

- Applies the chosen pattern across all relevant components
- Generates tests covering the specified edge cases
- Updates documentation to reflect the new behavior
- Ensures the implementation matches the codebase's conventions

This is *navigating*: precise execution of the charted course.

### Phase 5: Human Reviews and Approves

The human reviews the implementation with fresh eyes:

- Does this match my intent?
- Are there any concerns I didn't anticipate?
- Is this something I'm comfortable deploying?

This is *driving*: the human has final authority.

---

## Benefits for Humans

### Cognitive Relief

When LLMs handle the exhaustive details, humans experience:

- **Reduced mental fatigue** - No more tracking every edge case
- **Fewer context switches** - Stay in strategic thinking mode
- **Less anxiety about oversights** - Trust that the navigator is watching
- **More sustainable work patterns** - Creative energy isn't depleted by routine tasks

### Focus on High-Value Work

With cognitive load reduced, humans can focus on:

- **Innovation** - Exploring new approaches and capabilities
- **Mentorship** - Developing other team members
- **Architecture** - Shaping the long-term direction
- **Stakeholder relationships** - Understanding and serving user needs

### Better Decision Quality

When humans aren't mentally exhausted by implementation details:

- **Clearer strategic thinking** - Full cognitive capacity for important decisions
- **Better judgment** - Not rushing to "just get it done"
- **More thoughtful review** - Actually reviewing, not rubber-stamping
- **Healthier skepticism** - Questioning assumptions and approaches

---

## Benefits for Teams

### Healthier Collaboration

When humans aren't cognitively overloaded:

- **More patience** - Bandwidth for thoughtful discussion
- **Better communication** - Energy for explaining and listening
- **Reduced conflict** - Less stress-driven friction
- **Stronger relationships** - Time for the human side of teamwork

### Knowledge Democratization

When structural rigor is automated:

- **Lower barrier to contribution** - Focus on ideas, not implementation details
- **Faster onboarding** - New team members can contribute strategically sooner
- **Reduced bus factor** - Knowledge is captured in systems, not just heads
- **More inclusive participation** - Different cognitive styles can contribute

### Sustainable Pace

When the cognitive burden is shared with LLMs:

- **Consistent velocity** - Not dependent on heroic effort
- **Reduced burnout** - Sustainable work patterns
- **Better work-life balance** - Mental energy left at end of day
- **Long-term team health** - Sustainable for years, not just sprints

---

## Implementation Patterns

### Pattern 1: Interactive Planning

For complex changes, use structured dialogue:

1. **Human states intent** - What outcome is desired?
2. **LLM explores comprehensively** - What are all the considerations?
3. **Human makes decisions** - Which path forward?
4. **LLM implements precisely** - Execute the chosen path
5. **Human reviews and approves** - Final authority

See: [ADR: Interactive Planning Framework](../adr/in-progress/ADR-Interactive-Planning-Framework.md)

### Pattern 2: Structured Handoffs

For routine changes, use well-defined interfaces:

```yaml
# Task handoff from human to LLM
intent: "Add rate limiting to the API"
constraints:
  - "Must not break existing clients"
  - "Prefer Redis for distributed rate limiting"
  - "Start with 100 requests/minute default"
success_criteria:
  - "Tests pass"
  - "Documentation updated"
  - "No performance regression"
```

### Pattern 3: Review Checkpoints

For autonomous work, define where human judgment is required:

| Checkpoint | Trigger | Human Decision |
|------------|---------|----------------|
| **Architecture** | New component needed | Approve design |
| **Security** | Auth/authz changes | Verify approach |
| **API** | Breaking changes | Approve migration |
| **Scope** | Task growing | Continue or split |

---

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid

### Anti-Pattern 1: Abdication

**Problem:** Human fully delegates without reviewing

```
Human: "Just fix whatever you think needs fixing"
       [Never reviews the result]
```

**Why it fails:** LLMs can be confidently wrong. Human judgment is essential.

**Solution:** Humans review all changes, even if briefly.

### Anti-Pattern 2: Micromanagement

**Problem:** Human dictates every implementation detail

```
Human: "Use a for loop, not map. Name the variable 'items', not 'data'.
        Put the function on line 42..."
```

**Why it fails:** Wastes human cognitive capacity on low-value decisions.

**Solution:** Specify intent and constraints; let LLM choose implementation details.

### Anti-Pattern 3: Rubber Stamping

**Problem:** Human approves without genuine review

```
Human: "LGTM" [after 30 seconds on a 500-line change]
```

**Why it fails:** Defeats the purpose of human oversight.

**Solution:** Reviews should be substantive; if too rushed, the workflow needs adjustment.

### Anti-Pattern 4: LLM as Oracle

**Problem:** Treating LLM output as authoritative truth

```
Human: "The LLM said this is the best approach, so it must be"
```

**Why it fails:** LLMs can hallucinate, be outdated, or miss context.

**Solution:** LLM provides options and information; human makes decisions.

---

## Success Criteria

### For Individuals

- Humans report feeling less cognitively fatigued
- More time spent on creative and strategic work
- Fewer mistakes due to oversight or rushing
- Better work-life balance

### For Teams

- Sustainable velocity without heroic effort
- Improved collaboration and communication
- Faster onboarding for new team members
- Reduced knowledge silos

### For Codebases

- Higher consistency across components
- More comprehensive test coverage
- Current documentation
- Fewer regressions from incomplete changes

### For Organizations

- Faster delivery of business value
- Reduced burnout and turnover
- More innovation and experimentation
- Better developer experience

---

## Related Documents

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [A Pragmatic Guide for Software Engineering in a Post-LLM World](Pragmatic-Guide-Software-Engineering-Post-LLM-World.md) | Strategic umbrella connecting all three pillars |
| [LLM-First Code Reviews](../reference/llm-assisted-code-review.md) | Practical guide to LLM-first review practices |
| [Radical Self-Improvement for LLMs](Radical-Self-Improvement-for-LLMs.md) | Framework for autonomous LLM self-improvement |
| [ADR: Coding Standards in a Post-LLM World](../adr/not-implemented/ADR-Coding-Standards-Post-LLM-World.md) | Complete architectural decision record with implementation phases and technical specifications |

---

## A Note on Naming

This philosophy could be called several things:

- **Human-Driven, LLM-Navigated Development** - Emphasizes the driver/navigator metaphor
- **Cognitive Partnership Development** - Emphasizes the complementary strengths
- **Amplified Development** - Emphasizes human capabilities being enhanced
- **Sustainable AI-Augmented Development** - Emphasizes the long-term human benefits

The name matters less than the principle: **humans focus on what humans do best; LLMs handle what LLMs do best; the result is greater than either alone.**

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-12-05
**Next Review:** 2026-01-05 (Monthly)

Commit message:

Update example to use positive framing
Replace example about revoking access for "users who leave the company"
with an example about adding granular permission scopes for partners.
This avoids negative associations when introducing collaborative
human-LLM development concepts.

Authored-by: jib

docs/architecture/LLM-First-Software-Development-Lifecycle.md, after:

# Human-Driven, LLM-Navigated Software Development

**Status:** Draft
**Author:** James Wiesebron, james-in-a-box
**Created:** December 2025
**Purpose:** A philosophy and framework for software development where humans drive strategy while LLMs handle structural rigor and implementation

---

> **Part of:** [A Pragmatic Guide for Software Engineering in a Post-LLM World](Pragmatic-Guide-Software-Engineering-Post-LLM-World.md)

---

## Executive Summary

This document articulates a new paradigm for software development: **human-driven, LLM-navigated**. The core insight is that humans and LLMs have complementary cognitive strengths, and optimal software development emerges when each focuses on what they do best.

**Humans excel at:**
- Creative problem-solving and innovation
- Strategic decision-making under uncertainty
- Interpersonal collaboration and team dynamics
- Intuitive judgment about what matters
- Adapting to novel, ambiguous situations

**LLMs excel at:**
- Maintaining structural consistency across large codebases
- Exhaustive enumeration of edge cases and considerations
- Applying established patterns with unwavering precision
- Processing and synthesizing large amounts of context
- Tireless execution of well-defined implementation tasks

**The goal:** Free human cognitive capacity for creativity, strategic thinking, and healthy collaboration by offloading structural rigor and implementation details to LLMs. This isn't about replacing humans—it's about *amplifying* what makes humans uniquely valuable.

---

## Table of Contents

- [The Core Philosophy](#the-core-philosophy)
- [Division of Cognitive Labor](#division-of-cognitive-labor)
- [The Workflow in Practice](#the-workflow-in-practice)
- [Benefits for Humans](#benefits-for-humans)
- [Benefits for Teams](#benefits-for-teams)
- [Implementation Patterns](#implementation-patterns)
- [Anti-Patterns to Avoid](#anti-patterns-to-avoid)
- [Success Criteria](#success-criteria)
- [Related Documents](#related-documents)

---

## The Core Philosophy

### Driving vs. Navigating

Consider the analogy of a road trip:

| Role | Responsibility | Cognitive Load |
|------|----------------|----------------|
| **Driver (Human)** | Decides where to go, when to stop, what route to take | Creative, strategic, social |
| **Navigator (LLM)** | Tracks current position, calculates optimal paths, monitors for hazards | Systematic, exhaustive, precise |

The driver makes the decisions that matter—the destination, the purpose of the journey, whether to take the scenic route. The navigator handles the cognitive burden of tracking every detail, ensuring nothing is missed, and providing accurate information for decision-making.

Neither role is subordinate to the other. Both are essential. But they require fundamentally different cognitive capabilities.

### The Problem with Traditional Development

Traditional software development places an enormous cognitive burden on humans:

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    HUMAN COGNITIVE LOAD                        │
│                                                                │
│  Strategic Thinking        │  Implementation Details           │
│  ─────────────────         │  ──────────────────────           │
│  • What should we build?   │  • Did I handle null?             │
│  • Why does this matter?   │  • Is this pattern consistent?    │
│  • How does this fit?      │  • Did I update all call sites?   │
│                            │  • Are the tests comprehensive?   │
│                            │  • Is the documentation current?  │
│                            │  • Did I miss any edge cases?     │
│                            │                                   │
│        (~30%)              │          (~70%)                   │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

The majority of cognitive effort goes toward ensuring correctness, consistency, and completeness—tasks that require exhaustive attention to detail rather than creative insight.

### The Human-Driven, LLM-Navigated Model

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    COGNITIVE LOAD REDISTRIBUTION               │
│                                                                │
│     HUMAN (Driver)         │      LLM (Navigator)              │
│     ──────────────         │      ─────────────────            │
│  • What should we build?   │  • Enumerate all edge cases       │
│  • Why does this matter?   │  • Ensure pattern consistency     │
│  • How does this fit?      │  • Update all call sites          │
│  • Is this the right       │  • Generate comprehensive tests   │
│    approach?               │  • Keep documentation current     │
│  • Should we proceed?      │  • Validate against standards     │
│  • What trade-offs are     │  • Track dependencies and         │
│    acceptable?             │    implications                   │
│                            │                                   │
│  Creative, Strategic       │  Systematic, Exhaustive           │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Division of Cognitive Labor

### Human Responsibilities

| Domain | What Humans Do | Why Humans |
|--------|----------------|------------|
| **Vision** | Define what success looks like | Requires understanding of user needs, business context, organizational goals |
| **Strategy** | Choose between competing approaches | Requires judgment under uncertainty, risk tolerance, stakeholder management |
| **Review** | Approve or reject proposed changes | Requires accountability, institutional knowledge, taste |
| **Collaboration** | Coordinate with other humans | Requires empathy, persuasion, relationship-building |
| **Novelty** | Handle unprecedented situations | Requires creative problem-solving, analogical reasoning |

### LLM Responsibilities

| Domain | What LLMs Do | Why LLMs |
|--------|--------------|----------|
| **Completeness** | Enumerate every consideration | Tireless attention, no cognitive fatigue |
| **Consistency** | Apply patterns uniformly | Perfect recall of established patterns |
| **Precision** | Get details exactly right | No typos, no oversights, no "I'll fix it later" |
| **Documentation** | Keep everything current | No resistance to "boring" work |
| **Validation** | Verify against standards | Instant access to reference materials |
| **Implementation** | Execute well-defined tasks | Efficient translation of spec to code |

### The Handoff Points

```
        Human                              LLM
          │                                  │
          │  "I want to add OAuth2 to        │
          │   the API for third-party        │
          │   integrations"                  │
          │─────────────────────────────────▶│
          │                                  │
          │                                  │ • Research OAuth2 best practices
          │                                  │ • Enumerate security considerations
          │                                  │ • Identify affected components
          │                                  │ • Draft implementation plan
          │                                  │
          │◀─────────────────────────────────│
          │  "Here are 3 approaches with     │
          │   trade-offs. Approach A is      │
          │   simplest but limits future     │
          │   flexibility..."                │
          │                                  │
          │  [Human reviews, asks            │
          │   clarifying questions,          │
          │   makes strategic decision]      │
          │                                  │
          │  "Let's go with Approach B,      │
          │   but use PKCE instead of        │
          │   client secrets"                │
          │─────────────────────────────────▶│
          │                                  │
          │                                  │ • Implement Approach B with PKCE
          │                                  │ • Write comprehensive tests
          │                                  │ • Update documentation
          │                                  │ • Ensure consistency with codebase
          │                                  │
          │◀─────────────────────────────────│
          │  [PR ready for human review]     │
          │                                  │
          ▼                                  ▼
```

---

## The Workflow in Practice

### Phase 1: Human Initiates with Intent

The human expresses what they want to accomplish, not necessarily how:

```
"I want to add granular permission scopes to our API so partners can request only the access they need"
```

This is *driving*: the human decides the destination based on business needs.

### Phase 2: LLM Navigates the Solution Space

The LLM exhaustively explores the solution space:

- What existing patterns does the codebase use for authorization?
- What are the security implications of different scope hierarchies?
- Which components need to be modified?
- What edge cases must be handled (scope inheritance, partial access, etc.)?
- What do industry best practices recommend?

This is *navigating*: systematic, thorough exploration of all paths.

### Phase 3: Human Makes Strategic Decisions

The LLM presents options with trade-offs. The human decides:

- "Keep scope hierarchies flat to reduce complexity"
- "We'll accept some increased verbosity to support fine-grained permissions"
- "Let's prioritize clarity over backward compatibility"

This is *driving*: the human makes the judgment calls.

### Phase 4: LLM Executes with Precision

Given the strategic decisions, the LLM implements with unwavering consistency:

- Applies the chosen pattern across all relevant components
- Generates tests covering the specified edge cases
- Updates documentation to reflect the new behavior
- Ensures the implementation matches the codebase's conventions

This is *navigating*: precise execution of the charted course.

### Phase 5: Human Reviews and Approves

The human reviews the implementation with fresh eyes:

- Does this match my intent?
- Are there any concerns I didn't anticipate?
- Is this something I'm comfortable deploying?

This is *driving*: the human has final authority.

---

## Benefits for Humans

### Cognitive Relief

When LLMs handle the exhaustive details, humans experience:

- **Reduced mental fatigue** - No more tracking every edge case
- **Fewer context switches** - Stay in strategic thinking mode
- **Less anxiety about oversights** - Trust that the navigator is watching
- **More sustainable work patterns** - Creative energy isn't depleted by routine tasks

### Focus on High-Value Work

With cognitive load reduced, humans can focus on:

- **Innovation** - Exploring new approaches and capabilities
- **Mentorship** - Developing other team members
- **Architecture** - Shaping the long-term direction
- **Stakeholder relationships** - Understanding and serving user needs

### Better Decision Quality

When humans aren't mentally exhausted by implementation details:

- **Clearer strategic thinking** - Full cognitive capacity for important decisions
- **Better judgment** - Not rushing to "just get it done"
- **More thoughtful review** - Actually reviewing, not rubber-stamping
- **Healthier skepticism** - Questioning assumptions and approaches

---

## Benefits for Teams

### Healthier Collaboration

When humans aren't cognitively overloaded:

- **More patience** - Bandwidth for thoughtful discussion
- **Better communication** - Energy for explaining and listening
- **Reduced conflict** - Less stress-driven friction
- **Stronger relationships** - Time for the human side of teamwork

### Knowledge Democratization

When structural rigor is automated:

- **Lower barrier to contribution** - Focus on ideas, not implementation details
- **Faster onboarding** - New team members can contribute strategically sooner
- **Reduced bus factor** - Knowledge is captured in systems, not just heads
- **More inclusive participation** - Different cognitive styles can contribute

### Sustainable Pace

When the cognitive burden is shared with LLMs:

- **Consistent velocity** - Not dependent on heroic effort
- **Reduced burnout** - Sustainable work patterns
- **Better work-life balance** - Mental energy left at end of day
- **Long-term team health** - Sustainable for years, not just sprints

---

## Implementation Patterns

### Pattern 1: Interactive Planning

For complex changes, use structured dialogue:

1. **Human states intent** - What outcome is desired?
2. **LLM explores comprehensively** - What are all the considerations?
3. **Human makes decisions** - Which path forward?
4. **LLM implements precisely** - Execute the chosen path
5. **Human reviews and approves** - Final authority

See: [ADR: Interactive Planning Framework](../adr/in-progress/ADR-Interactive-Planning-Framework.md)

### Pattern 2: Structured Handoffs

For routine changes, use well-defined interfaces:

```yaml
# Task handoff from human to LLM
intent: "Add rate limiting to the API"
constraints:
  - "Must not break existing clients"
  - "Prefer Redis for distributed rate limiting"
  - "Start with 100 requests/minute default"
success_criteria:
  - "Tests pass"
  - "Documentation updated"
  - "No performance regression"
```

### Pattern 3: Review Checkpoints

For autonomous work, define where human judgment is required:

| Checkpoint | Trigger | Human Decision |
|------------|---------|----------------|
| **Architecture** | New component needed | Approve design |
| **Security** | Auth/authz changes | Verify approach |
| **API** | Breaking changes | Approve migration |
| **Scope** | Task growing | Continue or split |

---

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid

### Anti-Pattern 1: Abdication

**Problem:** Human fully delegates without reviewing

```
Human: "Just fix whatever you think needs fixing"
       [Never reviews the result]
```

**Why it fails:** LLMs can be confidently wrong. Human judgment is essential.

**Solution:** Humans review all changes, even if briefly.

### Anti-Pattern 2: Micromanagement

**Problem:** Human dictates every implementation detail

```
Human: "Use a for loop, not map. Name the variable 'items', not 'data'.
        Put the function on line 42..."
```

**Why it fails:** Wastes human cognitive capacity on low-value decisions.

**Solution:** Specify intent and constraints; let LLM choose implementation details.

### Anti-Pattern 3: Rubber Stamping

**Problem:** Human approves without genuine review

```
Human: "LGTM" [after 30 seconds on a 500-line change]
```

**Why it fails:** Defeats the purpose of human oversight.

**Solution:** Reviews should be substantive; if too rushed, the workflow needs adjustment.

### Anti-Pattern 4: LLM as Oracle

**Problem:** Treating LLM output as authoritative truth

```
Human: "The LLM said this is the best approach, so it must be"
```

**Why it fails:** LLMs can hallucinate, be outdated, or miss context.

**Solution:** LLM provides options and information; human makes decisions.

---

## Success Criteria

### For Individuals

- Humans report feeling less cognitively fatigued
- More time spent on creative and strategic work
- Fewer mistakes due to oversight or rushing
- Better work-life balance

### For Teams

- Sustainable velocity without heroic effort
- Improved collaboration and communication
- Faster onboarding for new team members
- Reduced knowledge silos

### For Codebases

- Higher consistency across components
- More comprehensive test coverage
- Current documentation
- Fewer regressions from incomplete changes

### For Organizations

- Faster delivery of business value
- Reduced burnout and turnover
- More innovation and experimentation
- Better developer experience

---

## Related Documents

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [A Pragmatic Guide for Software Engineering in a Post-LLM World](Pragmatic-Guide-Software-Engineering-Post-LLM-World.md) | Strategic umbrella connecting all three pillars |
| [LLM-First Code Reviews](../reference/llm-assisted-code-review.md) | Practical guide to LLM-first review practices |
| [Radical Self-Improvement for LLMs](Radical-Self-Improvement-for-LLMs.md) | Framework for autonomous LLM self-improvement |
| [ADR: Coding Standards in a Post-LLM World](../adr/not-implemented/ADR-Coding-Standards-Post-LLM-World.md) | Complete architectural decision record with implementation phases and technical specifications |

---

## A Note on Naming

This philosophy could be called several things:

- **Human-Driven, LLM-Navigated Development** - Emphasizes the driver/navigator metaphor
- **Cognitive Partnership Development** - Emphasizes the complementary strengths
- **Amplified Development** - Emphasizes human capabilities being enhanced
- **Sustainable AI-Augmented Development** - Emphasizes the long-term human benefits

The name matters less than the principle: **humans focus on what humans do best; LLMs handle what LLMs do best; the result is greater than either alone.**

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-12-05
**Next Review:** 2026-01-05 (Monthly)
