config/README.md, before:

# Configuration

Configuration for james-in-a-box (jib). There are two types of config:

1. **In-repo configs** (this directory) - Version-controlled, non-secret settings
2. **Host configs** (`~/.config/jib/`) - User-specific settings and secrets

## Host Configuration (Consolidated)

All host-side configuration is consolidated under `~/.config/jib/`:

```
~/.config/jib/
├── config.yaml        # Non-secret settings (Slack channel, sync intervals, etc.)
├── secrets.env        # All secrets (Slack, GitHub, Confluence, JIRA tokens)
├── github-token       # GitHub token (dedicated file)
└── repositories.yaml  # Repository access configuration (copied from repo)
```

**Migration from legacy locations:**
Run manual migration if you have existing configs:
```bash
python3 config/host_config.py --migrate
```

This migrates from:
- `~/.config/jib-notifier/config.json` → `~/.config/jib/`
- `~/.config/context-sync/.env` → `~/.config/jib/secrets.env`

**Usage:**
```python
from config.host_config import HostConfig

config = HostConfig()
slack_token = config.get_secret('SLACK_TOKEN')
slack_channel = config.get('slack_channel')
```

**CLI:**
```bash
python config/host_config.py                   # Show config status
python config/host_config.py --list            # Show non-secret config
python config/host_config.py --list-secrets    # Show secret keys (values hidden)
python config/host_config.py --migrate         # Migrate from legacy locations
```

**Templates:**
- `config/host-config.template.yaml` - Non-secret settings template
- `config/secrets.template.env` - Secrets template

### GitHub Tokens

JIB supports separate tokens for writable and readable repositories:

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `GITHUB_TOKEN` | Token for writable repos (or use GitHub App for auto-refresh) |
| `GITHUB_READONLY_TOKEN` | Separate PAT for read-only repos (optional, falls back to `GITHUB_TOKEN`) |

Using a separate read-only token provides security benefits. See [GitHub Integration](../docs/features/github-integration.md) for details.

## repositories.yaml (Source of Truth for Repo Access)

**Single source of truth** for which GitHub repositories jib has read/write access to.

This file is copied to `~/.config/jib/repositories.yaml` during setup.

This file controls:
- Which repos jib can respond to comments on
- Which repos jib can push changes to
- Which repos jib can create PRs in
- Default reviewer for PRs
- GitHub sync configuration

**Usage:**
- Python: `from config.repo_config import get_writable_repos, is_writable_repo`
- CLI: `python config/repo_config.py --list-writable`

**To add a new repo with write access:**
1. Edit `repositories.yaml` and add to `writable_repos` list
2. Reload github-sync service: `systemctl --user daemon-reload && systemctl --user restart github-sync.timer`

## context-filters.yaml

Controls which Confluence spaces, JIRA projects, and repositories are synced.

**Phase 1 (Current)**: MEDIUM risk - Human review + filtering
**Phase 3 (Target)**: LOW risk - DLP scanning + output monitoring

See file for detailed allowlists and blocked patterns.

Commit message:

refactor: Move repositories.yaml to host config
Remove the checked-in config/repositories.yaml file and read from
~/.config/jib/repositories.yaml instead. This file contains user-specific
configuration and should not be committed to the repo.

Changes:
- config/repo_config.py: Check host config (~/.config/jib/) first
- jib-container/docker-setup.py: Check host config first, use defaults if not found
- config/repositories.yaml: Deleted (was user-specific)
- config/repositories.yaml.example: Added as template for users
- docs/setup/README.md: Updated setup.sh -> setup.py references
- config/README.md: Updated to reflect new location
- tests: Updated path tests for new locations

Users should run ./setup.py to create ~/.config/jib/repositories.yaml
or copy config/repositories.yaml.example and customize it.

Authored-by: jib

config/README.md, after:

# Configuration

Configuration for james-in-a-box (jib). There are two types of config:

1. **In-repo configs** (this directory) - Version-controlled templates and non-secret settings
2. **Host configs** (`~/.config/jib/`) - User-specific settings, secrets, and repository access

## Host Configuration (Consolidated)

All host-side configuration is consolidated under `~/.config/jib/`:

```
~/.config/jib/
├── config.yaml        # Non-secret settings (Slack channel, sync intervals, etc.)
├── secrets.env        # All secrets (Slack, GitHub, Confluence, JIRA tokens)
├── github-token       # GitHub token (dedicated file)
└── repositories.yaml  # Repository access configuration (created by setup.py)
```

**Migration from legacy locations:**
Run manual migration if you have existing configs:
```bash
python3 config/host_config.py --migrate
```

This migrates from:
- `~/.config/jib-notifier/config.json` → `~/.config/jib/`
- `~/.config/context-sync/.env` → `~/.config/jib/secrets.env`

**Usage:**
```python
from config.host_config import HostConfig

config = HostConfig()
slack_token = config.get_secret('SLACK_TOKEN')
slack_channel = config.get('slack_channel')
```

**CLI:**
```bash
python config/host_config.py                   # Show config status
python config/host_config.py --list            # Show non-secret config
python config/host_config.py --list-secrets    # Show secret keys (values hidden)
python config/host_config.py --migrate         # Migrate from legacy locations
```

**Templates:**
- `config/host-config.template.yaml` - Non-secret settings template
- `config/secrets.template.env` - Secrets template

### GitHub Tokens

JIB supports separate tokens for writable and readable repositories:

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `GITHUB_TOKEN` | Token for writable repos (or use GitHub App for auto-refresh) |
| `GITHUB_READONLY_TOKEN` | Separate PAT for read-only repos (optional, falls back to `GITHUB_TOKEN`) |

Using a separate read-only token provides security benefits. See [GitHub Integration](../docs/features/github-integration.md) for details.

## repositories.yaml (Source of Truth for Repo Access)

**Single source of truth** for which GitHub repositories jib has read/write access to.

**Location:** `~/.config/jib/repositories.yaml` (created by `./setup.py`)

This file is **not checked into the repo** because it contains user-specific configuration.
See `config/repositories.yaml.example` for the template with all available options.

This file controls:
- Which repos jib can respond to comments on
- Which repos jib can push changes to
- Which repos jib can create PRs in
- Default reviewer for PRs
- GitHub sync configuration
- Docker container extra packages

**Usage:**
- Python: `from config.repo_config import get_writable_repos, is_writable_repo`
- CLI: `python config/repo_config.py --list-writable`

**To add a new repo with write access:**
1. Edit `~/.config/jib/repositories.yaml` and add to `writable_repos` list
2. Reload github-sync service: `systemctl --user daemon-reload && systemctl --user restart github-sync.timer`

## context-filters.yaml

Controls which Confluence spaces, JIRA projects, and repositories are synced.

**Phase 1 (Current)**: MEDIUM risk - Human review + filtering
**Phase 3 (Target)**: LOW risk - DLP scanning + output monitoring

See file for detailed allowlists and blocked patterns.
